Logan Reid
EE 393
Writing Assignment

Neutron stars are some of the densest objects in the universe. These celestial bodies linger on the fringes of what is even physically possible. Being the product of collapsed stars, they house nearly all the mass of an enormous star but with a mere seven mile diameter. This paper will inform about the origin and some of the characteristics of neutron stars.

Every neutron star begins as a star with roughly 8 times the mass of our sun. Any star this size or above has the potential to become a neutron star. These stars have a fusion process in their core that results in enough energy output to keep the star from collapsing. Once this fuel runs out, the star begins to collapse. The intense pressure of a collapsing star causes electrons and protons to combine to form neutrons and release a large amount of energy. This huge amount of energy leaving the collapsed core causes all the other solar matter to be flung away, leaving only a core made entirely of neutrons. This final product is what is known as a neutron star.

Because of their composition, neutron stars have a variety of bizarre and remarkable physical traits. Neutron stars typically have a mass of between 1.4 and 5 times the mass of our sun, however they have a diameter of just about seven miles. This makes these stars roughly 3x10^14 times denser than our sun, with gravity about 10^11 times stronger than on earth. This means the average person would weigh approximately 66.7 trillion pounds if they stood on the surface of a neutron star. This would be impossible not only because you would approach a neutron star at half of the speed of light due to its immense gravity, but also because most neutron stars rotate a single time in about 2 milliseconds. This puts the speed of the surface at about 40 million miles per hour. Neutron stars are the host of many strange physical phenomena.

In addition to their numerous strange surface traits, neutron stars can also emit large amounts of radiation from their poles. When this phenomenon occurs, the star is classified as a pulsar. It is thought that the energy coming from their poles is the result of particle acceleration near the star’s poles. The magnetic field at the poles of a neutron star are approximately 10^15 times stronger than on earth, resulting a particles reaching staggering speeds at these poles. Collisions at these speeds releases bursts of radio waves and other radiation. This is what allows us to find neutron stars since we are able to observe the radiation coming from these celestial bodies from far away, despite their small size.

Neutron stars are the result of a solar collapse of an enormous star, and maintain physical traits emblematic of their chaotic birth. These stars have staggering gravity, density, and rotation speed making them extremely chaotic. Additionally, they release huge amounts of radiation from their poles which earns them the title of pulsars. Overall, neutron stars exist on the fringes of what is physically possible, making them some of the most strange objects in the universe.
